hi I'm Ben Calhoun with citizen Wayne
and today we are going to explore Acts
chapter 10 one of the more significant
aspects of this chapter is that it's a
fulfillment of Acts chapter 1 verse 8
where Jesus says to his disciples you
will be my witnesses in Jerusalem Judea
Samaria and to the ends of the earth
going back to chapter 10 it talks about
a man named Cornelius who receives a
vision from the Lord to call on a man
named Simon Peter Peter then receives a
vision from the Lord saying here is a
bunch of animals on a sheet that you can
eat take it eat it now before this it's
usually unclaimed to eat some animals
and others are not and Peter's never
broken this rule so the Lord had to give
him this vision three times which is
significant in Peters life so that he
could understand I'm establishing
something new I'm going to do a complete
180 from how you've done it to now
because essentially Peter was the first
missionary so Peter goes to Cornelius's
house and preaches the gospel in a new
way not just to the Jew but now to the
Gentile because in that vision the Lord
is essentially saying everyone is now
welcome you can come into a right
relationship with Jesus all are welcome
Samaritans Jews Gentiles to the ends of
the earth and why that significant is
because Rome was the biggest largest
most expansive empire in the known world
and Cornelius was a Roman centurion he
was part of that he was a god-fearing
man this essentially fulfills x18
because now we get to go into all the
earth the known earth at that time when
Jesus said you will go to all the ends
of the earth that was Rome it had a foot
place in almost every part of the known
world and that was why it's significant
to help understand that God had a bigger
plan and this was the start of it a
complete 180 that he's calling all of us
to do to drop everything that we've
known and follow him